# August 09, 2024
Today, I created my first GitHub account and repository. I'm excited to start using GitHub for my projects!

# September 04, 2024
The BOLT: Compass is one of the sensors we have gone over in the lesson of today. This sensor works to measure direction as it helps the BOLT Sphere figure out where North, East, South, and West is. The sensor uses the spheres magnetic forces of the Earth to calculate and rotate the matrix shown towards that direction. For example, if the direction is North and the matrix animation is an arrow, the Sphero BOLT will show the arrow facing North. This sensor can be used in many activities or challanges as you can create a treasure hunt, like in the lesson, or use the function as an actual compass to figure out which way you are facing and which way to go.

# September 11, 2024
For Me: The instructions weren't as confusing, but there were some steps that had me confused on what to do so I had to ask help. I would say that having the whole class do it together as a group would be better because we would avoid doing the wrong things and students can ask help as we do it to better understand the intsructions.
For You: I did encounter a challenge while following the steps. I did not understand why I had created a folder instead of a file. I believe I read the instructions incorrectly or misunderstood what they had been telling me to do. Thankfully I was able to ask for guidance and I fixed my error.

# September 17, 2024
This is a free week.

# September 24, 2024
Ease of Use: I find python easier to understand than the Sphero block coding because the instructions are more straight forward and direct. Problem-Solving: The two approaches helped me solve coding challenges by providing the codes I needed to use, we only had to put them in order based on what we wanted the program to do. Flexibility: I feel that I have more freedom in python than in Sphero because as long as we know and write the commands correctly, we can program anything we want, but in Sphero, we are limited to the blocks they have available and nothing else. Real-World Application: Python programming might be more useful compared to block coding because with python we can create many different things such as games, websites, analysis, etc. since block coding, based on what I have seen, works more for robotics, game development, and story telling.

# September 30, 2024
One task or process where computer science plays a role in my daily routines or activities is in the websites I use. Computer science is used to create many things such as websites, games, and other types of apps. It impacts my life greatly as I use technology everyday. I usually play games, watch shows, or do my homework on websites/apps that were created using computer science. Workplaces and schools also use this technology for efficiency. Without computer science, our lives would have a great change. Things like advanced communication around the world, entertainment, machinery, and websites wouldn't exist at all without computer science. Life without it would be like in older times where we would have to go through longer processes just to achieve something. For example, we would have to write physical letters in order to send out messages and wait a long time until the other person recieves the message. With computer science though, we have messenger apps that allow you to send a message that the other person instantly recieves and is able to answer at that moment. This is why computer science has done a great impact on our daily lives.

# October 07, 2024
Job Title: Software Engineer
Job Description: The main responsibilities of this role is to design, develop, and test software applications by writing code, debugging issues, analyzing requirements, etc.
Skills Required: Programming, Problem-solving, Communication, Organizational skills, Teamwork, Database, and Data structures and algorithms.
Education and Experience: A bachelor's degree in the computer science or software engineering fields, coding experience, and continuous learning are some experiences and educations that are typically needed for this role.
Career Growth: Some opportunities for growth or advancements in this career are the abilities to learn how to develop software to protect against cyber threats, develop proficieny in relevent programming languages and tools, certifications, and many, many more.
Reflection: I have been interested in software engineering as I believe it plays a big role in the technological advances that have been made throughout the years. This job aligns with my interests and goals in computer science since the job literally revolves around computer science, a subject I enjoy learning about. To achieve this, I need to learn how to write, read, debug code, and much more which is what I am learning in this class. 

# October 15, 2024
As years have gone by, coding has helped create many helpful systems and mechanics, but, how do these skills help one in any industry? Coding can improve problem solving skills by allowing you to learn how to breakdown complex problenms into smaller ones as well as helping you think logically, create solutions, test, and once you solve the problem, you can reflect and learn from that experience. Understanding code can help you in industries that aren't directly related to technology, such as healthcare, finance, or education because it can make things more efficient for you. For example, in the video we watched, the doctor was able to use a sequencer to analyze spit from a patient or another substance to diagnose the patien in just an hour. This was possible due to coding and computer science since they are able to download data of previous viruses and diseases and find what they need to classify the disease the patient has. Furthermore, coding enhances creativity and collaboration as you can create anything you want and have multiple people test your work, help you work on it, and give you feedback. For example you can create a website with your own preferences and themes while other people can help you review the website to see if it is working or put your minds together to make many themes and functions to make the site look and work better. We can also look at another example such as Amazon, a site and app where one can do shopping online, was made with coding and in the industry, there are machines that help organize shipping which are also programmed to do that with coding. This is why coding is valuable knowledge as it is used in many industries and can make work more efficient no matter what industry you are in or are interested in.

# October 21, 2024
Artificial Intelligence is something that has been taking over and has done both good and bad things to society and workplaces. To start with, AI has given us opportunities to make learning, working, healthcare, and transportation more efficient and innovating. AI can help with solving complex problems that one may find overwhelming to understand and by using AI, they can get a simplified explanation which can help them understand and learn more. Furthermore, it is beneficial for multiple people that need assistance in their homes or workplaces. Industries are more efficient with harder, dangerous jobs with the help of robots as they can quickly and accurately do their jobs and can easily be fixed if an accident occurs. It also organizes data and solves problems that we can't solve on our own. If we pair artificial intelligence with our own work, we can produce stronger, higher quality material.
Although, AI has its benefits, it also has its downfalls. Some of these negatives include innaccurate results due to biased inputs by the creators of the system. AI is also not original and it takes work from others and combines it to give us what we are looking for. This looks bad in industries because it leaves people uncredited for the work that they do and many end up losing their jobs to these machines. In addition, it does not allow us to think nor become creative as we have begun to heavily rely on AI. For example, students use AI to do their work and do not put any effort in learning the material. Privacy isn't entirely secured because as we know, AI is always learning, so whatever we input online, it takes to upgrade its knowledge. Since AI is technology and technology isn't perfect yet, they can have many malfunctions along the way that can lead to accidents, false information, and bias. In conclusion, artificial intelligence is helpful as it helps industries and society work more efficiently, but, it all depends on the usage.

# October 28, 2024
Computer science and technology impact the election process by making things more efficient but at the same time it can cause security problems and many arguments online. One positive impact of technology playing a role in the elections is that the votes can be efficiently and accurately counted and data can be produced out of the information it collects. Another positive aspect is that many people can stay informed about the elections and about the candidates in order to make a good election choice which will benefit the country and community as a whole. One potential concern is that the system the technology counting the votes is operating in can be hacked. This can cause the votes to be changed and a false result to be displayed to the public. False results can cause a big problem to the public as many will argue about them, some believing they are true and others trying to prove they are false which can then turn into a huge and dangerous dilema. This can relate to another concern of technology taking a role in elections since people or politics can uses computer science to create false information which can infulence many people online to either believe or fight against it. As stated before, this can cause a huge dilema in the public as many opinions and perspectives will be produced and in the outside public, there can be dangerous arguments that can escalate to actual physical fighting which is a great concern for the community.

# November 04, 2024
Whenever we post or share content online, there are many kinds or information about yourself and others that are being published for the whole public to view. Althougth people may think there is no harm in doing so, we must still protect our information. It is important to protect personal and sensitive information when publishing online because there can be people who can use it to do bad things such as scamming, cyber-bullied, steal your identity, take credit card information, and lots more. This is something we really do not want as it can ruin our lives forever and can be hard to fix. Some steps I can take to ensure that the information I share on platfroms like GitHub or social media remains secure is by making sure you use strong, secure passwords, not sharing any unecessary information such as age, home address, and family members. Of course, there are other methods such as setting up a two-step vertification when logging in to a website, not reusing passwords, and not openly sharing information to others. In my life, I never really shared any personal information as I have always been taught not to befriend strangers online and tell them things like my age and real name online. I have also been taught not to share other information such as passwords and my address. Though, I have seen this happen to other people who later regretted this. One can balance being open and collaborative in online spaces while still protecting your privacy by keeping your personal life and information outside of the workplace. By doing this, you won't risk oversharing and potentially being harmed online. This is why it is important to protect personal and sensitive information when publishing things online.

# November 12, 2024
A current event that impacts my community is the elections. As we all know, many citizens went out to vote for the president of their choice. Some did this through mail, and some through polls. Many of these votes are all counted by a computer that is programmed to specifically and accurately count these votes and categorize who they voted for. This is where technology takes an important role as it is analyzing all this information which will determine the future of our country. Although this is a very efficient method, there has been a case where votes have been dismissed and not counted for due to whatever reason. One of these reasons, though it may not have been, could have been the systems failure, or someone hacked into the system and messed with the votes. These types of problems can be fixed in the future as technology advances.
Although, there are many possible reasons as to why some votes may have been dismissed, we know that if we make advances in technology, system failures or hackers messing with the elections will be less likely. Systems can be strengthend in order to avoid anyone from interfering with the votes, which is very important. Additionally, advanced technology can help keep the voters safe and protected by keeping their personal information safe once they cast their vote. Furthermore, updates will be more accurately presented to the public which can also help with stopping fake rumors about people cheating. Overall, advancement in technology can help in preventing issues similar or just like this one which would be a great benefit for everyone and help our minds grow.

# November 18, 2024
Technology has made big differences during the holiday seasons when it comes to purchasing items such as food. These differences has made it possible for food to become more affordable and accessible duing the holidy season by making it easier to find and purchase and using discounts to make it more affordable. For example, if you have an app such as Walmart, you can make your shopping through your device and order it for delivery or pick up which makes it easier to get other things ready for the season since you wont be wasting time looking around the store for the items you need. Furthermore, you can use online discounts and apply them before finalizing the purchase in order to save money. Of course, this does not only apply to grocery shopping but also buying fast food. There are many apps one can download and order online from. These apps can include companies such as McDonalds, Whataburger, etc. They offer rewards which you can use to recieve an item for free or with a discount which makes it affordable. In addition, they also provide pick up or delivery services which makes it more efficient. This is what technology has done to make things morre efficient and accessible for us during the holidays, but like all good inventions, there is a negative side to this. Many people can become lazy and dependable on these apps to do their shopping at. For example, someone can order food online every single day without having to do anything which can reduce physical activity and social interactions which are both two important factors our bodies need. We also lose the ability to figure out what produce is ripe or how to maneuver around shops since we wouldn't be used to doing this anymore. Therefore, I believe its good to balance using technology to purchase food and physically going to buy in order to benefit from the innovation and not lose our skills and activity.

# December 02, 2024
One recent development in technology is the tesla robot which was made by Tesla in around 2021 but has made recent developments and upgrades. This robot was made to do basic tasks such as moving objects, navigating , and recognizing its environment. This robot was also made to "walk among people" which means it can babysit, teach, walk dogs, serve drinks, etc. I believe our society and daily lives can be impacted in a negative way as we will become lazier to do some of the easiest tasks in our lives as well as decline our health as we would'nt recieve the necessary amount of exercise or movement one needs in a daily basis since we have the robots to do the jobs for us. My future career isn't as impacted as other careers that might switch up from human employees to robot employees, but it still can be dangerous as robots have massive intelligence and can basically do anything they desire without limits. What excites me about this advancement is that we are finding ways to make our lives more efficient to be able to take advantage of the time we gain from the robots doing our basic chores/work, but as my concern, it is becoming lazier and dumber as the days pass. An innovative way this technology could be used in my field of interest. which is Computer Science, is that we can find ways to continue programming the robot to do greater stuff and find ways to improve it to accomodate the lives of the people who purchase them. Some ethical considerations that might need to be addressed as this technology evolves is privacy. Anyone, if they know how, can access the information the robot has collected, including its producer which can be a concen to many people as they have important and private information that they do not want to share but this robot can easily access it using its intelligence and technology it has been given. The sources I used to find my information are theweek.com and builtin.com.

# December 09, 2024
As technology has evolved, many users have now become too engaged within it to the point where they aren't at the correct mental state and intelligence. The term brain rot, to me, means something like a video or game that doesn't have any value and is stupid. For example, skibidi toilet would be considered brain rot. I feel like digital media has had negative impacts on my mental well being this year as I have become too distracted from my tasks. Society has also been negatively impacted as we have been becoming stupider and more dependant on technology in order to do many simple tasks and for solving very easy problems or questions. Furthermore, younger kids and toddlers have not been shown the neccessary programs or shows that help them learn and mentally grow since all they make them watch now are rhymes such as CocoMelon and other videos that they themselves look for such as, again, skibidi toilet. They have become too addicted to their ipads due to this which is very bad. Runner-up words like lore connect to my experience with technology in 2024 not too drastically. I have known about the word lore before and I have become used to knowing what it means but I do not tend to use it at all when I am typing or speaking. I am still used to saying story or background as in background information. I believe it is possible to balance meaningful engagement with technolog while avoiding brain rot. This can be done by balancing the amount of time you have with technology and the time you have being productive in your daily life. I also think this can be done by avoiding videos that have brain rot content, but still watch anything you find entertaining. There may be more possibilities of avoiding brain rot apart from these two, what matters is that we do not let brain rot get too much into our heads to the point that we are the dumbest people that can't do or say anything but dumb stuff in our lives, depending on technology to help us.

# December 16, 2024
I am looking forward for the winter break. I am excited to probably be able to hang out with my friends and family and enjoy time resting from school. I am also very happy to see decorations and lights outside in places like the riverwalk.

# January 08, 2025
Looking back, I really enjoyed working on the code combat assignments. They were fun to do and it did allow me to learn how to use the commands properly and figure out strategies while also being fun and entertaining to do. I enjoy learning more about python and its basics as I take notes on the important functions and its capabilities which will help me in doing my own coding projects in the future. Looking ahead, I would like to learn more about programming things like games and websites, although that may be for a more advanced class than the fundamentals. Maybe some more activities would be fun to do aswell so that I can work with my partners and have fun with them as I learn how to program. About certificates, I am currently working towards one which is something I do want because I believe it will help me in the future and possibly in my career. Some tips and small talk about python would be helpful in my opinion because I would be able to open up about any questions I may have and talk about the subject which will also make me think if I truly want to have a career focused on programming or if there is something else that is waiting for me in the future.

# January 13, 2025
I personally think that this shift is not the best as many people lose their jobs due to the placement of AI and will start to communicate and work less. I think AI tools will limit opportunities for workers since they will be able to do the humans jobs with much more efficientcy and accuracy. This may cause people to lose their jobs so that the company can take advantage of the AI's function. Furthermore, it will be harder to apply and be accepted in jobs since there wont be enough work or positions due to the AI taking over most jobs. Communication skills can also be affected with this shift since there wont really be a need for it since you can just make the artificial intelligance do something for you instead of just asking an actual person or talking to them. I would prepare myself for a career in this rapidly changing job market by learning how to work with technology, continue to communicate to not lose my skills on it. Additionally, I would keep myself informed about these shifts in order to not stay behind and in risk of losing my career.

# January 22, 2025
I think government interventions negatively impacts technology companies and their users. The reason why is because it can limit the freedom users have on the platform and can affect the services the company can or wants to provide to make the app or website better. However, I don't think it is wrong to revise and check the policies to make sure the users are using a safe and private system. In my opinion, companies like TikTok should address security concerns to the public by providing the problem and then a plan on how to solve it. They should explain why there is security problems and how they are planning to take responisbility to make the app a better and safer platform for their user. If I were a developer, I would implement a policy that describes the users rights, rules, and owners rights to make sure the users stay informed about what the app will do and how it works. Furthermore, I would have privacy settings as well as have a section where people can ask questions about the app or platform to make sure all their information is safe. This relates to our projects in this computer science class about data privacy and app development since they are both important factos to take in mind when coding to create something. If one isn't careful or mindful of what they are making, it can lead to problems like the TikTok situation where they getting banned for using their users information without permission. We must learn to do things safely and wisely in order to avoid these types of mistakes when coding. These are some lessons one can apply to their projects or some I, myself, can apply onto my projects in order to make a useful, entertaining, safe app without a worrying about there being major security problems.

# January 27, 2025
  | Name     | Car | Mistake |
  | :------- | :-- | :------ |
  | Jimmy    | Honda Civiv    | Drilled Hole In Gas Tank        |
  | Kayla    | GMC Sierra    | Fixed Wrong Problem        |
  | Bart     | Toyota Corolla    | Left Stains On Carpet        |
  | Harrison | Subaru Forester   | Left The Oil Cap Off        |
